# Artifact types

1. Commentary
    1. Old old work
1. Parts of a discussion
    1. _Motivational statements_   or reports or challenge statements or lists of open issues that prompt an analysis; 
    1. _Hypotheses_,  about expected effects in some area;
    1. _Checklists_ used to design the analysis (see also, the [Checklist Manifesto](http://atulgawande.com/book/the-checklist-manifesto/);
    1. _Bibliographies_, comprehensive, annotated, and insightful (e.g. showing the development or open areas in a field);
    1. _Study instruments_ such as surveys interview scripts, etc;
    1. _Statistical tests_ used to analyze results (along with some notes explaining why or when this test is necessary);
    1. _Commentary_ on scripts used in the analysis;
    1. Examples of particularly _informative visualizations_ (e.g. Sparklines http://www.edwardtufte.com/bboard/q-and-a-fetch-msg?msg_id=0001OR )
    1. _Sampling procedures_ e.g. ``how did you choose the projects you studied?'';
    1. _Patterns_ describing  best practices for performing this kind of analysis;
    1. _Anti-patterns_   describing cautionary tales of ``gotchas'' to avoid when doing this kind of work;
    1. _Tutorial materials_: Guides to help  newcomers become proficient in the area. Some of these tutorial materials  may be generated by the researcher and others may be collected from other sources.
1. Results
    1. _Baseline results_ against which new work can be compared;
    1. _New results_  that offer guidance on how to best handle future problems.
    1. _Negative results_  that are anti-patterns, backed up by empirical results;
    1. _Future work:_  From the results, there many be speculations about open issues of future issues that might become the  motivation  for the next round of research.
1. Scripts,text, code
    1. The _actual text_   of an author's papers;
    1. _Scripts_  used to perform the analysis (the main analysis or the subsequent statistical tests or visualizations; e.g.    the  [Python Sparklines generator](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pysparklines)). Scripts can also implement some of the patterns
  identified by the paper.
1. Data
    1. Any  _data_ used in an analysis: either  _raw_ from a project or some _derived_ product.
    1. Note that some data is too large to fit into the standard on-line freely available repos (e.g. Github only allows 1GB reps). For such data, we suggest using some file `XXX.goto`; each line of which is one url where the related data can be collected.
1. Execution
    1. _Executable  models_ that can generate exemplar data;  or which offer an executable form of current hypotheses;
    1. _Delivery tools_ to let novices automatically rerun the analysis; e.g.
       + Config management files that can
          + build the system/ paper from raw material and/or
          + update the relevant files using some package manager
       +  Virtual machines containing all the above scripts, data, etc, pre-configured such that a newcomer can automatically run the old analysis.
